Add a doc section on cabal list-bin. (#7964)
haskell/cabal: doc/cabal-commands.rst

cabal-install Commands
======================

``cabal help`` groups commands into global, package, new-style project and
legacy sections. We talk in detail about all of the new-style project commands,

> ``help`` and ``list-bin`` but there are other commands.

Author: @Mikolaj when I started on this, the docs claimed to "give an in-depth description of **all** the commands" but this wasn't so. I included the help command output as a cheap way to show an abbreviated table of contents for `cabal-commands.rst` that we do discuss.

Doing a quick check, it looks like commands `fetch`, `info`, `list`, `user-config`, `upload`, `check`, `get`, `hscolour` and `report` are not discussed. The `init` command is discussed in the quickstart of `developing-packages.rst` so maybe we should link to it? Same goes for the `outdated` and `gen-bounds` commands that are discussed in `cabal-package.rst`.

I see that hscolour is deprecated. Should we move it alongside the v1 stuff (as a separate issue and PR)?

```
$ cabal help hscolour
Generate HsColour colourised code, in HTML format.

Usage: cabal hscolour [FLAGS]

Requires the hscolour program.

Deprecated in favour of 'cabal haddock --hyperlink-source'.
```

I know this is feature creep for this PR, but I've search through https://cabal.readthedocs.io/en/3.6 for "alias" and couldn't find a hit. Would this also be a good time to add a table explaining the forward and legacy aliases?

> ``help`` and ``list-bin`` but there are other commands.

Reviewer: @philderbeast: thank you very much for checking. I wasn't aware we overpromise and underdeliver so excessively. :D

As a first approximation, perhaps just change "all" to something like "some" re described commands? I like the inclusion of the `help` output --- it both works as a table of contents and the demonstration of the first item in the table. Given your findings, indeed, please remove my optimistic assurances that the commands we skip are not recommended. Links to command descriptions in other sections would be great.

Yes, please open a ticket or PR for hscolour! And I think searching in https://cabal.readthedocs.io/en/latest/ may be a good idea (it's regenerated from our CI all the time). I'd open a new ticket (or is here one?) or PR for the aliases.

> ``help`` and ``list-bin`` but there are other commands.

Author: @Mikolaj I side-stepped trouble I had previewing these changes by copying the `cabal-commands.rst` over to the drafts folder of the hakyll setup I have for my blog where pandoc can render a preview for me. Might we be able to setup a gitpod link or codespaces link so that contributors can work on the docs without having to do a local setup (I'm having some python trouble setting up sphinx even though I've had this going locally in the past.).

I will open other issues or PRs as you suggest.

> ``help`` and ``list-bin`` but there are other commands.

Author: > As a first approximation, perhaps just change "all" to something like "some" re described commands?

I made that change @Mikolaj.

> ``help`` and ``list-bin`` but there are other commands.

Author: I've spun off two separate issues from this thread, #7975 and #7978.

> ``help`` and ``list-bin`` but there are other commands.

Reviewer: Splendid. Please let me know and I will re-review.

> ``help`` and ``list-bin`` but there are other commands.

Author: I think I've included each suggestion (but not resolved conversations - should I?). Thanks @Mikolaj this PR is ready for re-review.

> ``help`` and ``list-bin`` but there are other commands.

Reviewer: Got it, thank you. I guess, we don't have an etiquette re conversations --- personally I wait for the reviewer to resolved as "satisified" instead of resolving myself as "addressed".

    Already generated `build-info.json` files will be removed since they would be stale otherwise.

cabal list-bin
--------------

``cabal list-bin`` will either (a) display the path for a single executable or (b)
complain that the target doesn't resolve to a single binary. In the latter case,
it will name the binary products contained in the package. These products can 
be used to narrow the search and get an actual path to a particular executable.

Example showing a failure to resolve to a single executable.

::

    $ cabal list-bin cabal-install
    cabal: The list-bin command is for finding a single binary at once. The
    target 'cabal-install' refers to the package cabal-install-#.#.#.# which
    includes the executable 'cabal', the test suite 'unit-tests', the test suite
    'memory-usage-tests', the test suite 'long-tests' and the test suite
    'integration-tests2'.

For a scope that results in only one item we'll get a path.

::

    $ cabal list-bin cabal-install:exes
    /.../dist-newstyle/build/.../cabal/cabal

    $ cabal list-bin cabal-install:cabal
    /.../dist-newstyle/build/.../cabal/cabal

.. warning::
    

>     ``list-bin`` won't accept any ``all`` scope such as ``all:exes`` or

Reviewer: Actually, I think @fgaz recently said somewhere that `cabal list-bin all:exes` works if there is only one exe and I just tried it and it does work. Probably doesn't if there are more (or zero?) exes.

Author: Thanks for the catch. I was trying out the behaviour of list-bin with cabal itself, a big `cabal.project`. I should review the tests for list-bin too while I'm on it.

Author: I got `cabal list-bin all` and `cabal list-bin all:exes` to work on some other projects too so I removed the warning. @Mikolaj can you please review this for merge now?

    Already generated `build-info.json` files will be removed since they would be stale otherwise.

cabal list-bin
--------------

> ``cabal list-bin`` will either; (a) display the path for a single exe or (b)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
``cabal list-bin`` will either (a) display the path for a single executable or (b)
```

> complain that the target doesn't resolve to a single binary. It won't list
> multiple binary paths but knows which build products a package has.

Reviewer 2: How about:
```suggestion
complain that the target doesn't resolve to a single binary. In the latter case,
it will name the binary products contained in the package. These products can 
be used to narrow the search and get an actual path to a particular executable.

Example showing a failure to resolve to a single executable.
```

::

    $ cabal list-bin cabal-install
    cabal: The list-bin command is for finding a single binary at once. The target
    'cabal-install' refers to the package cabal-install which includes the
    executable 'cabal', the test suite 'unit-tests', the test suite
    'memory-usage-tests', the test suite 'long-tests' and the test suite
    'integration-tests2'.

For a scope that results in only one item we'll get a path.

::

    $ cabal list-bin cabal-install:exes
    /.../dist-newstyle/build/.../cabal/cabal

    $ cabal list-bin cabal-install:cabal
    /.../dist-newstyle/build/.../cabal/cabal

> We can't scope to ``all:exes`` and ``all`` is not the same as giving no scope.

Author: I removed the output as you suggest and put a better description into a warning block.

> We can't scope to ``all:exes`` and ``all`` is not the same as giving no scope.

Reviewer 2: Brilliant, thanks!

    Already generated `build-info.json` files will be removed since they would be stale otherwise.

cabal list-bin
--------------

``cabal list-bin`` will either; (a) display the path for a single exe or (b)
complain that the target doesn't resolve to a single binary. It won't list
multiple binary paths but knows which build products a package has.

::

    $ cabal list-bin cabal-install
    cabal: The list-bin command is for finding a single binary at once. The target

>     'cabal-install' refers to the package cabal-install-3.7.0.0 which includes the

Author: Maybe I should drop the version suffix from `cabal-install-3.7.0.0`?

Reviewer: You are showing real output, so I guess a suffix is fine. Perhaps you could fake it to 3.6.2 so that users don't wonder why they can't find this secrete paid version on Hackage?

Author: I dropped the version suffix to avoid the docs looking stale and out of date when we're at cabal-3.8.0.0 or later.

Reviewer 2: I think inventing something (e.g. erasing some places) is worse than having an outdated version, following the principle of least surprise. Having older version in the example is less surprising to anyone reading this, I think.

But I don't feel strongly about it, it's just s nuisance. So fell free to leave it as is.

Author: @ulysses4ever I had tried cabal-install-_._.0.0 (as in don't care about version number) but that looked awkward.

Author: Seeing as `#` is commonly used to refer to number, we could go with `cabal-install-#.#.0.0` or `cabal-install-#.#.#.#`.

Reviewer 2: Yep, `#` is probably a bit better.

Author: I put back the version suffix with hashes in place of the actual digits.
